
Python logging library to emit JSON logs in a SAP CloudFoundry environment.
===========================================================================

This is a collection of support libraries for Python applications running on Cloud Foundry that
serve two main purposes: provide (a) means to emit structured application log messages and (b)
instrument web applications of your application stack to collect request metrics.

For details on the concepts and log formats, please look at the sibling project for `java logging
support <https://github.com/SAP/cf-java-logging-support>`__.


Features
-----------

1. Lightweight, no dependencies. Support of Python 2.7 & 3.5.
2. Compatible with the Python **logging** module. Minimal configuration needed.
3. Emits JSON logs (`format
   details <https://github.com/SAP/cf-java-logging-support/tree/master/cf-java-logging-support-core/beats>`__).
4. Supports **correlation-id**.
5. Supports request instrumentation. Built in support for:

  * `Flask 0.1x <http://flask.pocoo.org/>`__
  * `Sanic 0.5.x <https://github.com/channelcat/sanic>`__
  * `Falcon <https://falconframework.org/>`__
  * Extensible to support others

6. Includes CF-specific information (space id, app id, etc.) to logs.
7. Supports adding extra properties to JSON log object.

Installation
------------

Install the package with pip:

::

    pip install sap_cf_logging

Usage
-----

Setting up your application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Logging library needs to be initialized. Depending on you application type, different initialization
is used. You should usually do this in your application entrypoint.

For CLI applications you just need to call ``cf_logging.init()`` *once* to configure the library.
The library will try to configure future loggers to emit logs in JSON format.

If you are using one of the supported frameworks, check the `Configuration <#configuration>`__
section to see how to configure it.

**Setting up the CloudFoundry environment**

In order for your logs to appear in the Kibana dashboard, you have to create an **application-logs**
service instance and bind it to your application.


Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After installation use the following guide to configure the Python cf logging library.

Flask
^^^^^

First import the ``cf_logging`` library and setup Flask logging on the application.

.. code:: python

    from sap.cf_logging import flask_logging

    app = flask.Flask(__name__)
    flask_logging.init(app, logging.INFO)

Next use Python’s logging library

.. code:: python

    @app.route('/')
    def root_route():
        logger = logging.getLogger('my.logger')
        logger.info('Hi')

        return 'ok'

Note the logs generated by the application

Sanic
^^^^^

.. code:: python

    import sanic
    import logging

    from sanic.response import HTTPResponse
    from sap.cf_logging import sanic_logging
    from sap.cf_logging.core.constants import REQUEST_KEY

    app = sanic.Sanic('test.cf_logging')
    sanic_logging.init(app)

    @app.route('/')
    async def two(request):
        extra = {REQUEST_KEY: request}
        logging.getLogger('my.logger').debug('Hi', extra = extra)
        return HTTPResponse(body='ok')

**Note**: With Sanic you need to pass the request with an ``extra`` parameter in the logging API.
This is needed in order to get the *correlation_id* generated at the beginning of the request or
fetched from the HTTP headers.

Falcon
^^^^^^

.. code:: python


   import falcon
   from sap.cf_logging import falcon_logging
   from sap.cf_logging.core.constants import REQUEST_KEY


   class Resource:
       def on_get(self, req, resp):
           extra = {REQUEST_KEY: req}
           logging.getLogger('my.logger').log('Resource requested', extra=extra)
           resp.media = {'name': 'Cloud Foundry'}


   app = falcon.API(middleware=[
       falcon_logging.LoggingMiddleware()
   ])
   app.add_route('/resource', Resource())
   falcon_logging.init(app)

General
^^^^^^^

.. code:: python

    import logging
    from sap import cf_logging

    cf_logging.init()

    logger = logging.getLogger("cli.logger")
    logger.info('hi')

**Notes**: All loggers set up and created before the initialization of the Cloud Foundry logging library will
be left untouched. When using Flask and Sanic with the logging library before and
after request middleware is attached, and it will capture response times for each request.

Setting and getting correlation ID
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

When using cf_logging in a web application you don't need to set the correlation ID, because the logging library will fetch it from the HTTP headers and set it.
For non web applications you could set the correlation ID manually, so that the log entries can be filtered later on based on the ``correlation_id`` log property.
In this case the correlation ID is kept in a thread local variable and each thread should set its own correlation ID.

Setting and getting the correlation_id can be done via:

.. code:: python

    cf_logging.FRAMEWORK.context.get_correlation_id()
    cf_logging.FRAMEWORK.context.set_correlation_id(value)

If you need to get the correlation ID in a web application, take into account the framework you are using.
In async frameworks like Sanic and Falcon the context is stored into the request object and you need to provide the request to the call:

.. code:: python

    cf_logging.FRAMEWORK.context.get_correlation_id(request)


Logging sensitive data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The logging library does not log sensitive fields by default. Those fields are replaced with 'redacted' instead of their original content.
The following fields are considered sensitive data: ``remote_ip``, ``remote_host``, ``remote_port``, ``x_forwarded_for``, ``remote_user``, ``referer``.
Logging of all or some of these fields can be activated by setting the following environment variables:

+-----------------------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Environment variable              | Value     | Enables sensitive field                                                |
+===================================+===========+========================================================================+
| ``LOG_SENSITIVE_CONNECTION_DATA`` | true      |   ``remote_ip``, ``remote_host``, ``remote_port``, ``x_forwarded_for`` |
+-----------------------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``LOG_REMOTE_USER``               | true      |   ``remote_user``                                                      |
+-----------------------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``LOG_REFERER``                   | true      |   ``referer``                                                          |
+-----------------------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+

This behavior matches the corresponding mechanism in the `CF Java Logging Support library <https://github.com/SAP/cf-java-logging-support/wiki/Overview#logging-sensitive-user-data>`__.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

For more examples please see the tests within the ``./tests/`` directory.

Requirements
------------

No external requirements are needed to run the package.

Limitations
-----------

NA

Known Issues
------------

NA

How to obtain support
---------------------

Please open an issue on the github page.

Contributing
------------

Please create a pull request and briefly describe the nature of the change. Please submit a test
case along with your pull request.

To-Do (upcoming changes)
------------------------

NA

Changelog
---------

See `CHANGELOG file <https://github.com/SAP/cf-python-logging-support/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md>`__.

License
-------

Copyright (c) 2017 SAP SE or an SAP affiliate company. All rights reserved. This file is licensed
under the Apache Software License, v. 2 except as noted otherwise in the `LICENSE file <https://github.com/SAP/cf-python-logging-support/blob/master/LICENSE>`__.




